PushChain/2-send-universal-transaction/README.md, before:

# Send Universal Transaction to Simple Counter Contract

Learn how to execute Universal Transactions with PushChain. This tutorial guides you through interacting with a smart contract deployed on Push Chain Donut Testnet from any blockchain using the powerful Universal Transaction feature. We'll accomplish this using the PushChain SDK that makes it easy to bridge traditional blockchain silos and interact seamlessly across chains.

## What we will do

- **Create a wallet**: Generate a random Ethereum wallet
- **Convert to Universal Signer**: Transform the wallet into a Universal Signer instance
- **Initialize Push Chain Client**: Set up the client to interact with Push Chain Donut Testnet
- **Send Universal Transaction**: Call the `increment()` function from a smart contract deployed on Push Chain Donut Testnet from Sepolia

## Simple Counter Contract

The script interacts with the Simple Counter contract deployed at:
`0x9F95857e43d25Bb9DaFc6376055eFf63bC0887C1`

This contract is a basic counter that:

- `increment()`: Increments the counter
- `reset()`: Resets the counter to zero
- `countPC()`: Returns the current counter value

## How it works

1. **Wallet Creation**: Creates a random wallet using `ethers.Wallet.createRandom()`
2. **Provider Setup**: Connects to Push Chain Donut Testnet RPC endpoint
3. **Universal Signer Conversion**: Uses `PushChain.utils.signer.toUniversal()` to create Universal Signer from the wallet
4. **Client Initialization**: Initializes Push Chain client with the Universal Signer
5. **Transaction Preparation**: Encodes the `increment()` function call using the Simple Counter ABI
6. **Transaction Execution**: Sends the transaction using `pushChainClient.universal.sendTransaction()`

## Key Components

### Contract ABI

The script includes a minimal ABI for the Simple Counter contract:

- `increment()`: Function to increment the counter
- `reset()`: Function to reset the counter
- `countPC()`: View function to read the counter value

### Transaction Parameters

We use the `encodeTxData` helper function to encode the transaction data. This function takes the ABI and function name, then generates the proper calldata for the contract interaction. The `sendTransaction` payload follows the same structure as a standard EVM transaction payload:

```javascript
const txParams = {
  to: SIMPLE_COUNTER_CONTRACT_ADDRESS,
  value: BigInt(0),
  data: PushChain.utils.helpers.encodeTxData({
    abi: SimpleCounterABI,
    functionName: 'increment',
  }),
};
```

## Example Transaction

This transaction showcases calling `increment()` on the Simple Counter deployed on Push Chain from a Solana wallet using Phantom:

- Explorer link: <a href="https://donut.push.network/tx/0x8fde3a025ce719c33cf9436763016f0e2ebb16563a6be44dc3b48c45a37878c6" target="_blank">https://donut.push.network/tx/0x8fde3a025ce719c33cf9436763016f0e2ebb16563a6be44dc3b48c45a37878c6</a>

## Important Notes

- **Funding required**: The generated wallet needs PC tokens to execute transactions
- **Get testnet tokens**: Visit <a href="https://faucet.push.org/" target="_blank">Push Chain Faucet</a> to get PC tokens for testing

## Universal Transaction Benefits

- **Cross-chain compatibility**: Send transactions from any L1 chain (EVM or non-EVM)
- **No bridging required**: Direct native transactions without wrapping or bridging
- **Simplified development**: No need for complex interoperability tooling

## References

- <a href="https://pushchain.github.io/push-chain-website/pr-preview/pr-1067/docs/chain/tutorials/tutorial-simple-counter/" target="_blank">Official Simple Counter Tutorial</a>
- <a href="https://pushchain.github.io/push-chain-website/pr-preview/pr-1067/docs/chain/build/send-universal-transaction/" target="_blank">PushChain Documentation - Send Universal Transaction</a>
- <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@pushchain/core" target="_blank">PushChain Core SDK</a>

Commit message:

Update README for Send Universal Transaction tutorial to include a clickable link for the Simple Counter contract address and clarify the transaction execution process by adding a funding wait step before sending transactions.

PushChain/2-send-universal-transaction/README.md, after:

# Send Universal Transaction to Simple Counter Contract

Learn how to execute Universal Transactions with PushChain. This tutorial guides you through interacting with a smart contract deployed on Push Chain Donut Testnet from any blockchain using the powerful Universal Transaction feature. We'll accomplish this using the PushChain SDK that makes it easy to bridge traditional blockchain silos and interact seamlessly across chains.

## What we will do

- **Create a wallet**: Generate a random Ethereum wallet
- **Convert to Universal Signer**: Transform the wallet into a Universal Signer instance
- **Initialize Push Chain Client**: Set up the client to interact with Push Chain Donut Testnet
- **Send Universal Transaction**: Call the `increment()` function from a smart contract deployed on Push Chain Donut Testnet from Sepolia

## Simple Counter Contract

The script interacts with the Simple Counter contract deployed at:
<a href="https://donut.push.network/address/0x9F95857e43d25Bb9DaFc6376055eFf63bC0887C1?tab=index" target="_blank">`0x9F95857e43d25Bb9DaFc6376055eFf63bC0887C1`</a>

## How it works

1. **Wallet Creation**: Creates a random wallet using `ethers.Wallet.createRandom()`
2. **Provider Setup**: Connects to Push Chain Donut Testnet RPC endpoint
3. **Universal Signer Conversion**: Uses `PushChain.utils.signer.toUniversal()` to create Universal Signer from the wallet
4. **Client Initialization**: Initializes Push Chain client with the Universal Signer
5. **Transaction Preparation**: Encodes the `increment()` function call using the Simple Counter ABI
6. **Funding Wait**: The code waits for Sepolia ETH to be received at the generated wallet address (using `waitForFunding` function)
7. **Transaction Execution**: Sends the transaction using `pushChainClient.universal.sendTransaction()` once funds are available

## Key Components

### Contract ABI

The script includes a minimal ABI for the Simple Counter contract:

- `increment()`: Function to increment the counter
- `reset()`: Function to reset the counter
- `countPC()`: View function to read the counter value

### Transaction Parameters

We use the `encodeTxData` helper function to encode the transaction data. This function takes the ABI and function name, then generates the proper calldata for the contract interaction. The `sendTransaction` payload follows the same structure as a standard EVM transaction payload:

```javascript
const txParams = {
  to: SIMPLE_COUNTER_CONTRACT_ADDRESS,
  value: BigInt(0),
  data: PushChain.utils.helpers.encodeTxData({
    abi: SimpleCounterABI,
    functionName: 'increment',
  }),
};
```

## Example Transaction

This transaction showcases calling `increment()` on the Simple Counter deployed on Push Chain from a Solana wallet using Phantom:

- Explorer link: <a href="https://donut.push.network/tx/0x8fde3a025ce719c33cf9436763016f0e2ebb16563a6be44dc3b48c45a37878c6" target="_blank">https://donut.push.network/tx/0x8fde3a025ce719c33cf9436763016f0e2ebb16563a6be44dc3b48c45a37878c6</a>

## Important Notes

- **Funding required**: The generated wallet needs PC tokens to execute transactions
- **Get testnet tokens**: Visit <a href="https://faucet.push.org/" target="_blank">Push Chain Faucet</a> to get PC tokens for testing

## Universal Transaction Benefits

- **Cross-chain compatibility**: Send transactions from any L1 chain (EVM or non-EVM)
- **No bridging required**: Direct native transactions without wrapping or bridging
- **Simplified development**: No need for complex interoperability tooling

## References

- <a href="https://pushchain.github.io/push-chain-website/pr-preview/pr-1067/docs/chain/tutorials/tutorial-simple-counter/" target="_blank">Official Simple Counter Tutorial</a>
- <a href="https://pushchain.github.io/push-chain-website/pr-preview/pr-1067/docs/chain/build/send-universal-transaction/" target="_blank">PushChain Documentation - Send Universal Transaction</a>
- <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@pushchain/core" target="_blank">PushChain Core SDK</a>
